[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NARRATOR: And now,
world-renowned spirit medium,
James Van Praagh.
[APPLAUSE]
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH:
Hello, everyone.
Hi, hi.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
And thank you all
so very, very much.
And welcome to
"Spirit Talk," where
I take you one step
closer to heaven.
And I thought we would
start the day off
with just asking all of you
here in the audience, how
many of you have had
signs from spirit that we
know they're around.
Yes, and what kind of
signs did you have?
>>AUDIENCE: Electrical.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Electrical.
So-
>>AUDIENCE: Zapping?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Exactly.
Electrical.
How many have had electrical
things happen around the house?
Lights flickering on and
off and this sort of thing?
Computers, cellphones
acting very strange, right?
A lot of times spirit
will come through where
they can affect the magnetic
field of electrical objects.
And for some spirits,
that's an easy way
to come through for them.
How many people have had
dreams of your loved ones?
Mostly all of you.
Mostly all of you too probably.
Dreams are the number one
way that spirits communicate.
It's the number one way
they're able to communicate.
And the reason why you might
ask-- and I'll tell you.
Because I'm psychic
I know you're
going to ask me that question--
is that in the dream state
when we go to sleep at
night, our spirit body,
which is a replica
of the physical body,
is lying within
the physical body.
And at nighttime we go to
sleep in the dream state,
spirit leaves the physical body
and goes out of the head area
and goes over to the
spiritual dimensions.
Strange isn't it?
So sometimes you're just
about to fall asleep
and you feel you're
shaking, and that's
because your spirit
is not leaving
the correct axis of the body
so it comes right back in.
Isn't that wild?
I bet you didn't think of that.
So what happens is
when we leave and we
go to the spiritual
side of life--
a dream state-- we go
to the spiritual world.
We go to those dimensions.
And you see your friends
and your loved ones
and your guides
and your teachers,
and you will actually
connect with them.
And as you know, sometimes
it feels like, wow, this
is more than a dream, right?
It feels very, very real.
You've had that
experience, right?
It's just like, oh my gosh,
and I want to stay here.
I don't want to go
back to Earth, right?
So I know that when we
wake up in the morning
it's like, wow, that
was more than a dream.
And the way the conscious
mind receives it,
it does seem like a
dream, but then some.
And the conscious mind
can't get in the way.
The rational mindset
doesn't get in the way
so it's easier for us to
see it as that connection.
I call them a crossover
to the other side of life.
And when spirit crosses over
to the other side of life
when it's time for death--
so-called death because there
is no such thing as death--
but when it's that time
they go back to the
prime of their life.
They go back to
their younger times--
30s, 40s, whatever they
feel that they want to go to
in the prime of their life,
whatever their soul wants
to go to and feels connected
with, it will go to.
And they will portray
themselves that way.
That's why in the dream
state many times you
will see these spirits
looking very, very young.
Yeah?
So it's so interesting
because I think
many times we have to
get out of our humanness
and get more to the
spiritual side of ourselves.
Get back to our soul
selves, and really
understand what's going on and
realize that we're never alone,
that they're always with us.
So dreams are another
very good sign.
Another way-- anybody else
have another different way
you've communicated with spirit?
>>AUDIENCE: I
thought I saw them.
They looked exactly like them.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
So sometimes you
see somebody that
looks just like your
spirit friend, right?
Exactly.
Now what is that?
Well, is it them standing there?
I don't necessarily think
so, but what I think happens
is that the spirit is projecting
an image into your mind.
So we call it
clairvoyance, right?
So it's a mind-to-mind
communication,
which is exactly what I do.
And we're going to see that in
a little while demonstrated.
But what the spirit
will do is they'll
demonstrate into your mind
a projection of their vision
of their face of
what they look like,
and sometimes when
you see somebody
that projection is
there and you're like,
oh my gosh, that's my
daughter, that's my father.
Oh, that looks just like them.
I cannot tell you how many times
I've been in this situation
where there's been an audience
in front of me and I've seen
relatives of mine.
My own relatives
that have passed over
and I'm like, oh wow,
that looks like so and so.
But I know it isn't, but
it's the spirit's way
of coming through to
us and through to me
and letting me know they're
around me and the signs
that they have, the
signs they give us.
Another one, another
great one, anybody
have smells of
perfume or cigarettes?
>>AUDIENCE: My dad's cologne.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
Dad's cologne and
cigarette smell.
So something that you can
really associate with them
then that's how they
will come through.
It's so interesting because
not all spirits come through
with smells or come
through with electricity
or come through in
the dream state.
It's really up to that
particular spirit,
that individual
spirit and how they
want to try and
attempt communication.
And that's the signs.
Another way they come through,
which I'm sure a lot of you
have not thought about, but I'll
share with you is inspiration.
Inspiration.
When you're in the shower
and all of a sudden
you have this thought or
you're sitting down and all
of a sudden a thought
comes into your head.
How many people have driven a
car, you're driving the car,
and then all of a sudden
you think of somebody-- I
know it happened on
the way here probably.
I know-- and it's right there
and you're like, oh my gosh.
Did you ever think that
they're sitting next to you
in the passenger seat and
they're sending out a thought?
Yup.
So it happens like that.
Anyway, that's really
what we're going
to talk about today is signs.
And when we do the
communication part of this,
it's important
that you all know--
and those that are
watching-- that I never
know what's going to happen.
I never know what's
going to happen.
It's like a crap shoot
in that I stand up here
and I open up my mind and my
heart to the spirit world,
and I work with
guides and I work
with your guides
who come here today.
So many of you who come
into this room here
and people that are watching
this, many times you'll
have spirit guides around you.
And when we put ourselves
into a particular space,
we are being receptive
to the spirit.
And we're asking them
on another wavelength,
dear spirit friends come
through and I'm open to receive.
And that's really what I do.
I just stand and I
receive information
and I just give it out.
And there are some spirits that
are very good at communication
and there are other
spirits that are OK.
So we'll see.
And it's always good to
do this because you'll
see the varied skill set
of the different spirits.
So cool.
So are you with me?
Are you ready to go on a
journey and take a ride?
So we'll do that.
So before we get
to the journey, any
questions that you might have
for me or general questions
that might help people at
home that are watching this
or that you've thought
about over these years
and you've always wanted to have
a medium to ask this question?
Anybody have a couple questions?
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: I would like you to
address spirit orbs because we
see them whizzing
by all the time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Spirit
orbs, another sign
that spirit is with us.
So spirit orbs--
and a lot of people
have experienced
those-- and spirit orbs
many times will show
themselves in a photograph.
And it's this-- all the time.
And it will look like
bubbles of light.
What I believe spirit
orbs is another sign,
another way that spirit
comes through and trying
to, if you will,
project an image.
It's really
projecting an energy.
Now this is really interesting
because many people
think that it's one spirit
when you see a spirit
orb and a ball of light
that it's one spirit.
I don't think so.
I think it's several
spirits who've
come together and
projecting together
a thought, an energy, and
that's what's projected.
I think that's what it is.
I really do.
It's a feeling I get.
When I see pictures
of orbs I know
it's several spirits at
once with that one orb.
And you can go
into rooms and you
could see several orbs
in that photograph.
I once went down to Ford's
Theatre down in Washington, DC
and I sat on the stage and there
were multitudes of spirit orbs.
And I knew there were all
these beings around me.
So that's another
way that they come
through as signs, spirit orbs.
Another question
someone might have?
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Spirit
through children?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Spirit
through children.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, and
more than genetics--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: But how that works.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
Good question.
Spirit through children.
Very common.
So children-- remember that
children are very, very open,
right?
Children are very, very
open because number one,
they've just come
from the spirit world.
Yes?
Two years, four
years, five years.
So their mindset is
very much about spirit.
And looking, if you will,
at the world around them
and measuring it in terms
of, say, our spiritual lens.
Yes?
So they see things as a
spirit being in a way.
So they have not yet been
taught about hate, about fear,
about limitation, right?
So they're still very open.
If you want to know
the truth, ask a child.
They'll tell you exactly
what the truth is.
There's no dirt.
There's no fear.
They're not
embellishing anything.
They're not dishonest.
They're very, very
real what they got.
So they're very, very open.
And because they're
open, of course
they'll see spirits
all the time.
So I often say that imaginary
playmates aren't really
imaginary playmates.
They're probably-- sometimes
it could be for sure,
but a lot of time it's usually
spirit that they're around
and they're seeing
around somebody.
And it happened to me
when I was a child also.
I used to see
spirit all the time.
And as a kid you don't
think anything of it.
That's just your natural
way of living and behaving.
You don't know anything
else and no one
has taught you yet that
oh, that's not real.
I believe that children--
so interesting-- I believe
that children are
taught about fear.
I think that as children
they'll tell the adults,
yes, this is what's
happening, and they
describe exactly
what's going on.
And the parent, the teacher,
the adult, no, no, no, no.
And if you do this,
I'll accept you.
Do this and I love you.
Do this and you're
accepted in school.
You have to do these rules.
And it's so weird.
And this is happening
here, the parent or adult
will say certain things
and children see energy.
Children always see energy.
So they see the energy
coming out of the mouth,
they'll see the auric
energy around the person.
And it's so interesting.
I have found that many times
the words that come out
of the adults mouth don't equal
the vibration of their energy.
So the child will
be like-- they learn
to distrust the
adult right away.
So they learn to distrust the
adult right away because what's
coming out of the mouth
is not equal to the energy
that the child is
seeing around them.
Isn't that interesting?
So pretty interesting.
So they're very,
very open, children.
And I really do help to
promote their intuition.
And I always tell a
child, what do you feel?
What do you see?
Well, I saw my grandpa
last night in a dream.
What did he look like?
Where did you find him?
Ask them questions.
Where is he?
It's very good to nurture
the intuition with a child.
Very important.
I think it's also
our responsibility
as adults to really
foster and to nurture
the intuition of children.
I really do.
Yeah.
So I'm going to guide
you through meditation.
And we have music we're
going to play now.
And we're gonna
start with that, OK?
Music, please.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Good.
And those people at
home that are watching,
you can close your
eyes, too, and just
listen to the sound of my voice.
Just close your eyes gently.
And listen to the
music behind my voice.
We worry so much as humans.
We worry so, so much, don't we?
We put so much on our plate.
The past has already happened.
So not much we
can do about that.
And the future is yet
to be, so no reason
to waste the energy
of the future.
So all we truly have is
this moment right now.
So in your mind,
just put out there
I'm going to make the
most of this moment
now and truly live fully
in this moment now.
It's this gorgeous
moment that you
could create this
particular time.
Good.
So as you sit there, becoming
very mindful of your feet
on the floor.
Become mindful of your
backs on the chairs
and your legs, your
shoulders, and your arms.
Your hands, your
neck, and your head.
Become mindful that you as a
spiritual being are limitless.
You go way above the head.
Your energy can project
way, way beyond this room.
Where ever you are right now,
go way, way beyond above you.
Beyond our solar system even.
You as a spirit, you project
higher and higher, far,
far away, up and above.
Your spirit knows no limitation.
So below you through the feet,
your energy, your spirit,
your thoughts go all the way
down through to the Earth
to connect with Mother Earth
energy, that beautiful Gaia
energy.
That beautiful energy
that nurtures us,
that brings us
balance, that brings us
food, that brings
us the oneness.
We are connected to the Earth.
We are connected to the heavens.
And you as a spiritual
being, as a spirit
having this human
experience, can
be part of the heavens and part
of the Earth and part of one
another as you sit
right now in this space.
So as you sit in
this space, just
be mindful now of your
heart, your beautiful heart.
This lovely, lovely
area of the heart
pumping out the blood to nurture
all the cells, the organs,
and the muscles in the body.
And just acknowledge
that beautiful, loving,
beating of the heart.
And with each beat is a bright
golden light just enveloping
each cell, each
organ, each muscle.
See that and be that.
Good.
To enforce this
beautiful light which
you are and your connection
to heaven worlds and the earth
worlds, we're going
to use a breath.
The breath is a gift from God
for the breath sustains life.
So together let's imagine a
beautiful golden star far,
far above us.
Far, far away.
And as we bring that
beautiful golden star
into the awareness
of the body, I
want to bring that
beautiful golden light,
the celestial light
into the body,
and when we exhale
out of the mouth,
we're going to exhale a
color of gray mist out
of the mouth, which represents
the old you, old thoughts,
old energy, old belief systems.
Any negativity.
Anything fears you might
still be holding onto
and that are
programmed within you,
we're going to let that
go with each exhalation.
So together let's bring
that beautiful golden light
into the top of the head and
bathe our entire beingness
with that light.
And together and inhale.
[INHALING]
And hold it 2, 3, 4, and exhale.
[EXHALING]
Let go.
Good.
Let out the old.
Very good.
And again, bring that beautiful
golden light and inhale.
[INHALING]
And holding it 2,
3, 4, and exhale.
[EXHALING]
Let it go.
Good.
Lovely, lovely, lovely.
Let it go one more time.
Lovely.
And inhale that
beautiful golden light.
Inhale.
[INHALING]
And hold it 2, 3, 4, and exhale.
[EXHALING]
Let it go.
Good.
And all the old stagnant
energy has left the body.
Left the body.
And now at this moment,
feeling refreshed, rejuvenated,
really connected to
heaven, to Earth.
Be mindful of this
beautiful heart.
And out of your heart
center, project a green light
in front of you.
This beautiful green light.
Project it in front of you.
This green light is
light of healing.
The light of balance.
The light of peace.
Now, dear friends,
surround yourself,
the top of your head to
the bottom of your feet,
in that green light.
Good.
Become mindful of how you
feel as you surround yourself
in that green light
of healing, of peace.
When we direct that to
ourselves feel that oneness.
Feel your connectedness.
Feel the joy.
This is love.
Love by its true nature is
not to keep, but to share.
So please send that
green light to the person
on your right side.
For those at home,
people that you know
would like to have this green
loving light, send it to them.
And soon the entire
room is filled
with this oneness
of loving light.
We sit together in peace
and love and harmony.
And we ask, divine
heavenly parent,
we ask your blessing on
this meeting tonight.
Dear spirit friends,
draw near to me.
Spirit friends,
speak clear to me.
Spirit friends, slow
down your voices.
When we hear, the
heart rejoices.
Give us glimpses of
eternity, and let
us know that you are free.
Give us names and
facts and places.
Help us to understand
heaven's graces.
Send your thoughts upon me
with emotion and simplicity
as we sit together in
peace, love, and harmony.
And so it is.
And slowly open up your
eyes and be as one.
Yeah!
Good job.
Good job at home.
Very good job.
And just for a second because
we get so busy with thinking,
just acknowledge and
assess how you feel.
You look a lot lighter.
Do you feel it?
A little feel differently?
Yes?
Feel differently there?
Because it's something,
which we rarely do.
Take the time out to be with
ourselves because we're so
in our heads that
we think and worry
and we put all that
stuff out there.
You know, the body will
respond to our thoughts.
It responds to
exactly what we're
thinking because
thoughts are real.
And so I've got
to tell you that.
Yeah?
So there we go.
All right.
I'm going to start now and
do connection with spirit
because they're all around
us and I would like to begin.
Is that OK?
So let me just see.
I got that.
Yup.
I-- yup-- slow down.
So I have several people
here and some of them
are coming at once.
So let her go behind me.
Thank you.
Very good.
Right.
I have a lady here who
comes in very much--
and there's a lady behind
me who's a young woman
and then there's an
older woman right now.
And I feel like I want to
say it's a mother figure.
And I feel much older here.
And I feel before
I pass over, I'm
not able to-- I'm
not ambulatory.
I'm not able to get around.
I feel also there might have
been a little bit of upset
or an argument before
this person passes over.
So I've got to say that.
Now I know that would
be the daughter who
would be in this room here
because she comes and gives me
this.
I know also that you must
have a table of mine.
Must have a table or some
furniture of mine in the house.
Hold on.
I don't know if I'm
here or not, but I just
want to get more
information from this lady.
I know there would also be
either furniture or some
of my belongs in either a
garage or a storage area,
and I would very much be
aware as this lady makes me,
impresses me with this, that
recently the daughter would
have thought about
going through that stuff
or had been through that stuff.
Does that makes sense
to somebody here?
Is this for you?
>>AUDIENCE: My mother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
OK.
So your mom's passed over.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, good.
So we're going to
get you a microphone.
OK, so I have a lady here
next to you who's your mother,
but I also have
another gentleman
coming in here as well.
And I know this man would be
connected with your mother
so it would be her
father I feel like.
And I'm going to also talk to
you about was there somebody
who had some ties toward
Europe, that came from Europe,
or would have been toward
Germany two generations back
or--
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would her
family have been from that?
Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I
feel like I'm going back
to that European era, like
Germany kind of thing.
I'm also telling you
that I have a man here
that's been over
there for a long time.
He's been over there for awhile.
And I know this man would
wear glasses at one point.
And I see him very strongly.
I know he's connected
with your mother.
I'm also going to
tell you that he
comes in right
next to your mother
so he takes care of your mother.
I've got to tell you that.
He takes care of your mother.
I also want to tell you that,
is there a brother you have?
Do you have a brother who's
still living on the Earth?
>>AUDIENCE: Uh huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I know as your mom
comes close to me here,
she's talking to me
about your brother.
And I know that there's got
to be a connection with you
and your brother in that I know
that you either have to connect
with him again or
there's something
which I'm not sure we're
not together on something,
but I really want to
come together with him.
OK?
Now, is he married please?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's not married.
Was that an issue or something?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mhm.
Because mom is standing
right next to me
and she's talking about his
marriage or him getting married
and there's an issue behind
that situation that she goes
you would know about that.
OK?
And I also want to
tell you there's
something about going to either
a paramedic or an ambulance.
So I don't know if
someone came to the house
at one point for her,
at the end, toward 911.
We had a call.
You understand that?
Because as she
comes close to me,
I feel like there's a
rush of paramedics people
around me and rushing
me to the hospital.
You understand that?
OK.
I also want to tell
you that before when
your mother's passing--
and I'm going to tell you
there's a process of passing
with her-- because I know
two days before you
knew she was gonna pass.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Two
days before, she said,
you knew she was going to pass.
>>AUDIENCE: I did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You did.
I know it because
she's going, she knew.
She knew two days before.
I don't know if she knew
someone with the name of Lucy
or Lucille or this name would
be familiar to her family,
but I want to go with
that name Lucy or Lucille.
Would you know of anything
with her family or that name
would mean anything, L, to you?
>>AUDIENCE: I have
an Aunt Louise.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Aunt Louise.
Great.
Is she still living on the
Earth or has she passed?
>>AUDIENCE: Yup, she's here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you know
if recently she talked to you?
She called you, didn't she?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
So I'm just being
acknowledged by your mother
that she was responsible
for Louise coming through
to talk to you.
And that might sound very
strange or very weird,
but I want you to know your
mother was behind that.
And she's telling
that you even thought
of her when Louise
talked to you.
You thought of your mother.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And she's telling me
also that you actually
had a thought about your mom
as you're speaking to Louise
and you and Louise were probably
talking about your mother
or said something
about her, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
I'm going to tell you
that she brings me now,
your mom is bringing
me to the summer time.
To the summer time.
So I want to go May, June, July.
Around this time.
So I don't know
what significance
there is in that time.
If there's a birthday
or is it her birthday
at that time or your birthday?
>>AUDIENCE: Both.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Both, great.
Because I want to go to
that time of the year.
And she said that's
what makes us happy.
And I know that we would
celebrate sometimes together,
wouldn't we?
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mhm.
Because I know we would
celebrate together.
And she's holding up a
drink and like a cheers.
Cheers type of thing.
Now you'd say, well, she
didn't drink that much,
but I'm going to tell you for
this, she is for some reason
here.
Now, I'm also shown a cross.
There's a cross here.
So I don't know who was raised
in a Christian or Catholic
or something to
this Christian way.
Do you understand about this?
>>AUDIENCE: Uh huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would
she have known
about that religious background
please or growing up that way?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Would you also be very
familiar with her--
she's showing me a cross.
So the cross now is
becoming a necklace
and I'm putting this on.
Did she have one do you know?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mhm.
Because she keeps on
telling me she did.
And she did.
So who's the man that's
passed over before her?
>>AUDIENCE: My dad.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your dad.
Your dad.
I'm sorry.
Right.
So she's met your
father before-- she
met your dad when she
first passed over.
Can I say that to you?
I understand that.
I didn't want to stay alive.
I didn't want to
stay in that place.
Your mother did not want
to stay away in that place,
do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE:Nuh-uh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she said
it was a blessing for her
that she moved on.
OK?
Now I know she tells me that
beforehand-- and probably
about a year, year
and a half-- she
would have been in a hospital.
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
So that would have been
about a year and a half,
18 months before she said,
I was in that hospital.
I hated it.
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
she's also someone
who does feel like
she needs control.
She needs to be aware
of her surroundings.
And at that point when she
was in the hospital, she said,
she didn't know where she was.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So I know that you're there.
And now I want to go
toward-- go on, go on.
She's very interesting how she's
speaking to me because she's
talking about my daughter
likes to look through books.
She says you love to
look through books.
I don't know if you
like to read and you're
reading different books,
but she's also telling me
that you were looking through
a photo book or picture books.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So she's just acknowledging
you were looking
through those picture
books just recently.
I understand that.
And I know when your
father comes in here,
he's a much lighter person in
some ways than your mother.
Can I just say that to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Because I feel like I
want to be lighter
in my mannerisms.
I want to be lighter in
my energy with your dad.
And I feel like with your
mother as she comes in here,
there was some hard stuff
when she was younger.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: When
she was growing up,
it was a hard thing
for her to grow up.
You know that.
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: When her
family as a young girl,
she had a tough time.
She had to be the adult
when she was a young child,
and that was hard for her.
I think she must have been one
of three people in that family.
She must have had
two other siblings.
Do you know?
One of three?
>>AUDIENCE: She has four
sisters and a brother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Four
And they're still
all alive, huh?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No.
OK.
Great.
So why would there
still be three?
She keeps on
talking about three.
>>AUDIENCE: Because
one of them died.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK,
so three living?
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There you go.
Because I know she
says three to me.
OK.
So she's been watching
them and seeing them.
I understand that.
Right.
And the brother is still living?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Does he
have trouble with his eye?
>>AUDIENCE: I don't know.
Yes!
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's had
trouble with his eye.
Mm, hm.
So we know there's a cataract
or there's trouble with his eye.
Thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
He just had that fixed.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Just
had the surgery.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
She's telling me that.
OK?
So there's a problem with
that surgery with the eye.
And I know that he is
getting a bit of emotional
and he's questioning himself
about living here and not
living.
Questioning life and death.
And he's doing that right now.
When you were a young girl,
were there braces or were there
problems with teeth?
>>AUDIENCE: Um--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Who had the
trouble with the teeth.
They had to put a retainer
or something on the teeth.
>>AUDIENCE: My sister.
I had to have a retainer.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There you go.
I understand that.
At seven years of age,
there was a retainer.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
she said there's
a picture of you at
seven years of age.
There's actually a
photograph of you.
You had maybe a school
photograph you had taken
and you didn't want to go
that day to school she said.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
That's what she's giving me.
But you're very beautiful.
You're very beautiful.
You don't see it, but
you're very beautiful.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The
hardest part of my job
is not talking to spirit.
That's OK.
I can do that.
But the hardest part is
seeing your own beauty
and your own gifts and you
don't see it for yourself.
Now I know that your mother is
asking for forgiveness here.
She's asking for
forgiveness, OK?
And I know that you tried to
get your mother's love really,
really a lot, and
you couldn't get her
the way you wanted her to be.
You understand?
I know that you wanted
your mom's love.
I know you wanted
it a certain way.
And I can't get what I want.
I mean, I want her to
receive me in a certain way.
I want her to be
sensitive to my--
to looking at things
the way they really
are instead of how
she perceives things.
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
So she's apologizing for that.
She's apologizing for that.
Are you married?
Do you have any children
or married at all?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm a widow.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're a widow.
OK.
So you've been thinking
about your husband?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
So you can see that I'm pretty
good at what I do and it flows
through but if you think
about one particular person,
you're using all that
energy in that space
and you're blocking it.
It's like a hose that
you're watering the garden
and you put a crink in the
hose, the water can't flow.
So when you think about
a particular person,
you're blocking everyone
else from coming in.
And your mom needs
the healing from you.
This is your mom's time.
She needs to come through
and say she's sorry for you.
And she said she knows that
you didn't think she heard you.
OK?
She knows that.
And I know that you're angry
with me at certain times.
You were angry with her.
And I know that--
also by the way,
there's someone of the name
Charles in the spirit world.
So I don't know who
Charles is, but there's
a Charles in the spirit.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So in
the family there ago.
So they want to
say hello to you.
And they can bring through
your husband in a different way
so let me just put
that aside, right?
But I know I need for
your mom to come through
and she said she knows now
that she didn't hear you
when she was living, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
know that-- I'm not sure
if there was an event
with your husband
that she missed or she
missed an anniversary
or there was a
birthday or she didn't
get a card to your or something.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
And I know you are pissed.
>>AUDIENCE: I was.
I was mad at her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, I know.
I know you were
because I know that.
I'm very, very aware of that.
And your mother's
very sorry about that.
Your mother has her
own stuff, you know?
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
you want an ideal family.
I know that.
Your whole idea as a kid
was I want an ideal family
because you didn't have that
when you were a young girl.
Was there a thought about
teaching at home or you
thought about being a
teacher at one time?
>>AUDIENCE: Me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
Right?
Because she's tell
me that you were
going to be a teacher
or you thought about it
that I want to be a teacher.
And that when you
were a young girl,
you used to lock yourself
away in your own little room
and pretend I was a teacher.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
And that's what
she's telling me.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's
really interesting.
OK.
So I want to say-- and this
lady-- I really feel sorry
for your mother.
I really feel sorry
for your mother
because I feel when she
was young girl that either
her father wasn't there for
her, was not there emotionally
for her, was not present for
her, and that affected her.
Because your mom's
very sensitive as well.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
And I know there
would be an old cuckoo
clock, an old clock
that you must have.
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I feel it
must--you understand that?
And it's gone down
through family.
Generations.
It's been handed down from--
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You understand?
So you have that clock, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
So this is just validations.
This is just information
that she knows
and your father knows.
Your father's behind you waving.
Your father is fine.
Your father said
to tell you he has
a garden on the
other side of life.
And he loves to garden.
And I know that over
here on this side of life
he would have liked
a garden here.
Does that make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I know
I'm very concerned about roses.
I'm very concerned
about fertilizing.
And I'm very concerned
about watering things.
And your dad is like that.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
also know that you
would have had a dream
about your father
not too far back,
not too far back.
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now, as I connect
with you and I want to ask you,
your husband passed over?
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And was he ill
please for a bit of a time,
wasn't he?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because as I
get this energy close to you,
this gentleman comes
in here and can
I just tell you you've
opened up the doors now.
Now you've given
your mother her space
and your father his space.
And let me tell you,
I love your father.
He's great.
He tells me jokes.
He's very light and
he doesn't take things
so seriously like
your mother does.
Your mother's a bit too
serious about things.
But then we must look
about her background.
Where did she come
from, you see?
What was her upbringing?
What did she learn as a child?
It's very, very important.
So I know as this gentleman
comes here, he's very handsome.
He took care of you.
Your husband took care of you.
I stand up like this.
I'm very proud.
I think sometimes he
could be a little cocky
when he wanted to be.
Like really a little arrogant
and cocky when he wanted to be,
but just playing around.
Fun type of thing.
I don't know why I'm going
to go to the end of August
or around August?
>>AUDIENCE: That
was our anniversary.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Anniversary.
And is was the 20s
the anniversary?
Something in the 20s?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
So was it the 27th or
something like this?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
Good.
So August 27.
I know that's our time together
and we still have our time
together.
He comes in bringing
you roses, roses, roses
because you keep on putting
roses next to his photograph.
You understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Because he said you
keep on putting roses
next to the photograph,
so he's telling me about that.
Good, good, good.
Go on.
I love you.
I see he loves you very,
very strongly this man.
Really, really strongly.
And you haven't lost
his love, darling.
You haven't lost his love.
And it's something which
he's part of your soul now.
Now I know the last
memories that you
have of this gentleman,
I know that I
have to be at the hospital, OK?
Because I know that I'm in a
special place in this hospital.
I see him in a bed and
I'm very aware you're
standing next to him, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You held his hand.
And he gives me a memory
of you holding his hand.
I know that I
can't breath right.
I know that I'm in a
lot of pain, this man.
I feel like my
body is not my own.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that
you put together the video.
You put together the
video of my life.
You put together all the video.
And I know it's not only video
that he's showing me here.
But I'm also seeing
still photographs
that you put into
the video, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
So he's just talking
to me about that.
You put the still videos
into that as well.
And go, go, go.
Yes, I got you.
Thank you very much.
He's great.
I like him.
He has good energy,
your husband.
He calls it what it is.
He's black and white.
There's no fooling around.
He's a little full of himself,
but he takes good care of you.
You're his princess.
He smothers you with love.
I would say he must have been
a little bit taller than you.
Would that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
if I want to do this.
I want to kiss your head,
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
Because he kisses your
head all the time.
All the time kisses your head.
I got to tell you that.
I know there's a John
connection somewhere.
So I don't know there's a friend
of his with the name John,
but he's talking about a John.
He's looking our for John.
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I got
to tell you that.
OK?
I also want to talk
about having this car.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Do you still have the car?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But that was
a big deal with that car.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, it was.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And not
getting rid of the car
or what to do with
that car, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
he's very, very aware of that.
And he loves the energy
of you doing that, helping
him that way.
Having that thought about
I got to keep his car.
Now I know you have his
dresser there too because he
shows me the dresser.
The dresser.
And it's his dresser.
Now I'm going back to the time
right before he passes away,
he has a dresser there, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Mhm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that I want
to-- there are little
things on the top of it too.
It's very strange.
Little things on top of it.
I don't know if it's
something like a bobble head,
one of them, back at that time.
Not presently.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And did he like football?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because what
I'm seeing in front of me
on top of this dresser
it looks almost
like a bobble head of a football
player, a football helmet.
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
You understand that.
OK, good.
It's the weirdest thing.
That's the weirdest thing, but
he gives me that-- he's goofy,
he's fun, and he's goofy,
but, you know what, he's real.
He's real.
I want you to look for a Mark.
Be aware of a Mark.
He's telling me Mark and
he's telling me skiing.
And I'm going to tell you
that this gentleman's talking
about setting you up or putting
you together with somebody else
and you will-- it happens.
The best matchmakers are
in heaven, let me tell you.
So your husband is going to
help you find somebody else.
And I know you're going to
say, I don't want anybody else.
It's just happened.
I don't want this,
I'm still in grief.
Fine.
You have to go
through the grief.
You have to go through
this process of it.
But just don't forget that
he's looking out for you.
And remember that
name Mark and skiing.
It's very specific so
would you remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now do you
still have the roses, then,
that you keep on putting
next to the photograph,
or do you have a rose?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And now he's also telling me
that when he passes away--
and I know it must
have been in a hospital
and I'm very, very aware
that I don't see things
so I'm in this coma before I
pass over or I'm out of it.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, no hospital.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No hospital.
Was there a hospice
or was he at home?
>>AUDIENCE: It was hospice.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wasn't he in the
hospital right before that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
what he's showing me.
Because I know what I'm seeing.
I know I'm seeing a hospital.
I see a hospital.
I'm very, very aware of it
because I'm lying in the bed
and I have a door over here and
I have a nurse's station close
by.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: See?
So ding, ding, ding.
And he's very aware of
the sounds at nighttime.
I know that I'm in pain.
I know that he's in pain.
I know that.
It must be some kind
of a cancerous thing.
It has to be.
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
it's just like my body
doesn't feel like my own.
I know I need oxygen.
I know my food-- I
didn't eat for awhile.
I know I get really thin.
And I got to tell you,
I can't even eat food.
It tastes terrible to me.
And I know that-- I want to
tell you that I'm at a lake
or I'm near a lake.
And I want to tell you that
the lake means a lot, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I know
if we go to this cabin
and we have our lake there.
We're sitting in
front of the lake.
And I know if I tell you
that, you'll understand that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
he's telling me
that you'll understand he's in
heaven if he says that to you.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Did he like
fishing every once in awhile,
didn't he?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Because I know there
would be a photograph
of me with fishing.
And I don't know if we have
fishing poles in there.
I understand.
You still have a
fishing rod of his?
>>AUDIENCE: Yup.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know that would
be very significant
that you'd have the
fishing rod, OK?
I know that there's a photograph
of him, the fishing photograph.
There could be
several, but there's
one significant that
you still have out, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
know very, very much
that when he passes
over he said that you
went to his side of the
bed or you moved over
to that side of the bed.
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Understand that?
So it's just validation
that you did that with him.
And he's just talking
to me about that.
OK?
So what else?
So he's always with you.
And I know you're reading
to him and you talk to him
in the TV room.
There's two living rooms-- a
living room, a sitting room,
and a TV room.
Two separate rooms, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he's right
there in that chair next to you
still in that space.
I've got to tell you that.
Still in that space.
And I know you petting
his hair when he was ill.
And he said his hair is fine.
He has a full head of hair.
Full head of hair.
And he's very happy about it.
And he wants you to know
that he's all right.
All right?
So--
>>AUDIENCE: That's good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm going
to leave you with that.
OK, sweetheart?
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
I appreciate it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Blessings.
Blessings.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you very much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're
very, very welcome.
So as I stand here
it's so interesting
because as I'm standing here,
I get hit left and right.
And when I put
myself in this space
I will be influenced
by certain spirits.
And many people in
the audience want
to hear from one
particular person,
but sometimes it blocks
the others from coming in.
So I just go to
what I'm hearing.
So I have another gentleman
that comes in here.
And he's coming in with
a woman by the way.
So there's a woman that
he would know about.
So his mother would have
been on the spirit side
or in the spirit
side of life, OK?
And I want to tell you
that this man dies younger
than older, OK?
Like I said, this man
dies younger than older.
And the man I have
here, would you
understand about this
man not really, can I
say, supporting his body,
supporting who he was,
had no sense of himself,
this sort of thing.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I also got to tell
you that I was angry.
So this man is angry when
he leaves or he's angry.
I've got to tell you that.
I know you dad passed over.
I know you love your
father, but your father
comes through all the time.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes.
He does.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I want to tell you
your father must have been
in the military at
one point, wasn't he?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And don't you
have a photograph of him
in his military uniform please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, we do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
he's telling me--
he's acknowledging that you
have the photograph of him
in that military uniform.
I know there would also
be medals at one point.
I'm not sure if they're dog
tag medals or the dog tags.
You have that, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, we have that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK, good.
So he's just acknowledging
that you have that.
Did he smoke cigarettes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, he did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
Because as I connect here,
I'm not only seeing cigarettes
around you, but I'm--
[SMOKING SOUND]
And he is telling me that he
loves a good cigarette, OK?
And I've got to tell you
that he knew somebody
in that war time name Mac.
M-A-C. Mac.
M-A-C. Good.
So if you would
know about having
some of your dad's
belongings, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, we have some.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I'm
very aware that you
have a couple of boxes,
but one in particular
is a cardboard box.
Now this box looks
a little worn.
>>AUDIENCE: Very worn, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: As if it was
rained upon, it got wet,
and it's kind of
worn out, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
inside that box he
shows me that you have
either journals, magazines,
and photographs
that belong to him.
Make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
You understand that.
So if you please go
home and look at that,
I know that there's
a journal in there.
I know it's handwritten.
And he has a list of people.
I don't know if it's his platoon
or people that are in there,
and if you'll find number
five going down that list,
it'll say, Mac, or
in parentheses, Mac.
I'm seeing it
very, very clearly.
Quote, "M-A-C," quote
and another name.
OK?
So please look for that.
And I guarantee
you you'll find it.
Guarantee also
you're going to find
toward the back of that
book there's photographs.
Loose photographs in that box.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
That is correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But especially
that one book, the journal,
there's photographs in
the back of that journal.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, you're right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Are
you aware of that?
Great.
And I know that there's a
team or a platoon of his guys
that he was with
in that war and I
know it's right
near that journal,
and it's a black and
white photograph.
And I know that
you would see that.
And I want you to know
he's with all those people.
>>AUDIENCE: And more.
It showed up in a dream.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It
showed up in a dream?
Oh, fantastic.
Fantastic.
He has his voice
back he's telling me.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I don't
know what that means.
He has his voice back.
>>AUDIENCE: He had pulmonary
fibrosis at the end.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
he couldn't speak?
>>AUDIENCE: He was
on a lot of oxygen.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
he couldn't speak
at the end, is that right?
OK.
OK, good.
So I just want you to
know he is around you
and he has his voice back
and I've got to tell you,
he's also helping
the people around
that you've been
worried about so much.
Why do you worry so much?
>>AUDIENCE: Human nature.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Human nature.
Well, you know better.
OK.
I'll leave you with that, OK?
God bless you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
Thank you all everyone
very, very, very much.
I really appreciate you being
here and taking apart of it.
And I hope that you and
people at home have really
learned some things or
received some information that
will help you as well and
help you on your path.
So thank you all
very, very much.
And until we meet again, I
hope that you will continue
on your path and
may the spirit world
surround you with
love and light.
Thank you very much.
Bye.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]